# Kickstarter-analysis
Analysis on Kickstarter data

## Overview of Project 
This project was to help increase our understanding and knowledge of analyzing data by learning how to break down information and use it as insight. Our future employers and clients will want to use a data analyst for several reasons but the simplest one could be to get what the potential results of a future project might be like, which is what we learned in this 1st module. For this project, our goal was to help our client, Lousie, determine when it would be best to have a successful fundraising campaign by comparing data from other fundraising campaigns around the world. The types of data found in this project could have an impact on our findings and determine how to best advise our client to meet their goal.  

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
Based on the data provided, I noticed that the most successful month for fundraising is May [1]. The data on the graph showed steady growth starting in April and a slow decline leading into June. From this, I assumed that springtime tended to be the best time for campaigning. I also noticed that during the months of February, March, and April there were lower failure rates and thought the success rate wasn’t at its highest point during those months, they were still very profitable [1]. December however, I found is the worst month to start a fundraising campaign as the failure rate was higher than the success. Even though the rate of cancellation remained steady throughout the year, December had the worst results [1]. I believe this could be because of the holiday season, when most people might be focused on family and gift giving. As a result, I would advise my client to set their campaign time frame between the months of February and June. They would most likely have a higher chance of a profitable campaign.

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
Of course, every campaign had its own goals and range of price points to achieve. Using the help of all the data, we were able to analyze what price point might be a good starting point for our client. The price margins that were less than $5,000 had more successful outcomes [2]. More specifically, there were a total number of 186 campaigns with a budget of $1,000 or less that had an outcome of 76% success and there was a total of 534 campaigns with a budget between $1,000 and $4,999 with 75% success [2]. Technically, the next successful price range was between $35,000-$34,999 and $40,000-$45,000 with success rates at 67%, however, the total number of projects between those two ranges was 9 [2]. So even though they still had a good success rate based on the percentages, I feel that there is a greater risk with higher goals. If my client wanted a higher price point than $5,000, I would advise them to set a goal between 10,000 and 25,000 as this success rate was 50% to 55% for those categories. These price points were broken down into 3 parts: $5,000-$9,999, $10,000-$14,999 and $15,000-$19,000; allowing my client a few more options with goals set higher and that can still accomplish success [2]. 

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
One of the toughest parts of this project for me was my confidence in my ability to breakdown the data and determining how to use that broken down data properly within the excel formulas and charts. I was able to understand how to use the formula in graphs and how to add them to my data. I struggled with making sure I was using the right information that could help me obtain the results and knowledge I was looking for. For example, when it came to putting my data in pivot and chart forms, I questioned what information I should place in the columns, the filters, and/or the rows, so that it was it easiest for me to understand and translate to the client. I also struggled with the if statements. Specifically, the “countsif” statements when determining how to break down and take the information I'm looking for and place it properly in the formula [3]. However, after looking up some examples online and reaching out to classmates for further assistance, I was able to overcome these challenges. I do feel more confident in my ability to break down data and use it properly within a formula for me to obtain the best results. I also learned that this could be experience that is gained overtime with increased exposure and practice.


##footnotes
[1] – Kickstarter Challenge Workbook, tab: Theater Outcomes by Launch Date
[2] - Kickstarter Challenge Workbook, tab: Outcomes based on Goals
[3] module 1 career connection, section: technical interview. Explaining countsif
